= Current =

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_1.06.tar.gz JAFFA_1.06.tar.gz] - This version fixes a bug from 1.05, where recurrent fusions in the Mitelman database weren't being flagged correctly

You will also need one of these supporting reference files:
  * [https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_HG19_GENCODE19.tar.gz JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_HG19_GENCODE19.tar.gz] - Files for hg19 (JAFFA assumes this reference by default), or
  * [https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_HG38_GENCODE20.tar.gz JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_HG38_GENCODE20.tar.gz] - Files for hg38, or
  * [https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_MM10_GENCODEVM4.tar.gz JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_MM10_GENCODEVM4.tar.gz] - Files for mouse (mm10)

Please see [FAQandTroubleshooting] for instructions on running JAFFA with either the hg38 or mm10 reference.

= Older =

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_1.05.tar.gz JAFFA_1.05.tar.gz] - Fusion gene names are now ordered by fusion gene orientation (previously gene names were listed alphabetically)

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_1.04.tar.gz JAFFA_1.04.tar.gz ] - This version fixes an issue that caused the direct mode to be slow on some large dataset. 

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_1.03.tar.gz JAFFA_1.03.tar.gz ] - Major improvements over 1.0 such as:
  * Reads that map to intronic, intergenic, and chrM regions are now first filtered out before running the pipeline. This improves the RAM and time requirements for the assembly and hybrid modes.
  * For the direct mode we now calculate spanning pairs
  * fusions classed as PotentialRegularTranscripts are no longer reported
  * we now threshold on 2 spanning reads for LowConfidence fusions (previously this was 1), to help remove library prep false positives.

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_1.0.tar.gz JAFFA_1.0.tar.gz ] -This version is identical to 0.91. Improvements of 0.9 are that it works out the read length itself and includes a few bug fixes and checks. Thanks to Aliaksei Holik for correcting the bug in the spanning pairs calculation.

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_0.9.tar.gz JAFFA_0.9.tar.gz ]

[https://googledrive.com/host/0B1FwZagazjpcQU9IaURTVzd6Ym8/JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_0.80.tar.gz JAFFA_REFERENCE_FILES_0.80.tar.gz ] - Files for the GENCODE reference transcriptome version 17